Iuri Everton Reis de Sousa 11811EMT013

BASIC


Question
How can you produce a list of facilities that charge a fee to members?

    select * from cd.facilities
    where membercost > 0

Question
How can you produce a list of facilities that charge a fee to members, and that fee is less 
than 1/50th of the monthly maintenance cost? 
Return the facid, facility name, member cost, and monthly maintenance of the facilities in question.

    select facid, name, membercost, monthlymaintenance from cd.facilities
    where membercost > 0 and membercost < monthlymaintenance/50

Question
How can you produce a list of all facilities with the word 'Tennis' in their name?

    select * from cd.facilities
    where name like '%Tennis%'

Question
How can you retrieve the details of facilities with ID 1 and 5? Try to do it without using the OR operator.

    select * from cd.facilities
    where facid in (1,5)

Question
How can you produce a list of facilities, with each labelled as 'cheap' or 'expensive' depending on if 
their monthly maintenance cost is more than $100? Return the name and monthly maintenance of the facilities in question.

    select name,
    case
        when monthlymaintenance > 100.0 then 'expensive'
        when monthlymaintenance <= 100.0 then 'cheap'
    end as cost

    from cd.facilities

Question
How can you produce a list of members who joined after the start of September 2012? 
Return the memid, surname, firstname, and joindate of the members in question.

    select memid, surname, firstname, joindate from cd.members
    where joindate >= '2012-09-01'

Question
How can you produce an ordered list of the first 10 surnames in the members table? 
The list must not contain duplicates.

    select distinct surname from cd.members
    order by surname
    limit 10

Question
You, for some reason, want a combined list of all surnames and all facility names. 
Yes, this is a contrived example :-). Produce that list!

    select surname from cd.members
    union
    select name from cd.facilities

Question
You'd like to get the signup date of your last member. How can you retrieve this information?

    select joindate from cd.members
    order by joindate DESC
    limit 1

    ou

    select max(joindate) as latest
	from cd.members;         

Question
You'd like to get the first and last name of the last member(s) who signed up - not just the date. 
How can you do that?

    select firstname, surname, joindate from cd.members
    order by joindate desc
    limit 1

    ou

    select firstname, surname, joindate
	from cd.members
	where joindate = 
		(select max(joindate) 
			from cd.members);   

Question
How can you produce a list of the start times for bookings by members named 'David Farrell'?

    select starttime from cd.bookings
    where memid = (select memid from cd.members where surname = 'Farrell' and firstname = 'David')

    ou 

    select starttime from cd.bookings bks
    inner join cd.members mems on mems.memid = bks.memid

    where mems.firstname = 'David' and mems.surname='Farrell'

Question
How can you produce a list of the start times for bookings for tennis courts, for the date '2012-09-21'? 
Return a list of start time and facility name pairings, ordered by the time.

    select starttime, name from cd.bookings bks
    inner join cd.facilities fac on bks.facid = fac.facid
    where name like 'Tennis Court%' 
    and starttime >= '2012-09-21' and starttime < '2012-09-22'
    order by starttime

Question
How can you output a list of all members who have recommended another member? 
Ensure that there are no duplicates in the list, and that results are ordered by (surname, firstname).

    select distinct mems2.firstname, mems2.surname from cd.members mems1, cd.members mems2
    where mems1.recommendedby = mems2.memid
    order by mems2.surname

Question
How can you output a list of all members, including the individual who recommended them (if any)? 
Ensure that results are ordered by (surname, firstname).

    select mems1.firstname as memfname, mems1.surname as memsname,
        mems2.firstname as recfname, mems2.surname as recsname
        from cd.members mems1
        left outer join cd.members mems2
                on mems2.memid = mems1.recommendedby
                
    order by memsname, memfname;

Question
How can you produce a list of all members who have used a tennis court? Include in your output 
the name of the court, and the name of the member formatted as a single column. 
Ensure no duplicate data, and order by the member name followed by the facility name.

    select distinct mems.firstname || ' ' || mems.surname as member, facs.name 
        from cd.members mems
        inner join cd.bookings bks on mems.memid = bks.memid
        inner join cd.facilities facs on facs.facid = bks.facid
        
        where facs.name like 'Tennis Court%'
        
    order by member, facs.name

Question
How can you produce a list of bookings on the day of 2012-09-14 which will cost the member 
(or guest) more than $30? Remember that guests have different costs to members (the listed 
costs are per half-hour 'slot'), and the guest user is always ID 0. Include in your output 
the name of the facility, the name of the member formatted as a single column, and the cost.
Order by descending cost, and do not use any subqueries.

    select mems.firstname || ' ' || mems.surname as member, 
        fac.name as facility,
        
        case
            when mems.memid = 0 then
                bks.slots*fac.guestcost
            else
                bks.slots*fac.membercost
            end as cost
            
        from cd.members mems
        inner join cd.bookings bks on bks.memid = mems.memid
        inner join cd.facilities fac on bks.facid = fac.facid
        
        where bks.starttime > '2012-09-14' and bks.starttime < '2012-09-15'
        and ( 
                (bks.memid = 0 and bks.slots*fac.guestcost > 30.0)
                or
                (bks.memid != 0 and bks.slots*fac.membercost > 30.0)
        )
        order by cost desc


aggregates

Question
For our first foray into aggregates, 
we're going to stick to something simple. We want to know how many facilities 
exist - simply produce a total count.

    select count(*) from cd.facilities

Question
Produce a list of the total number of slots booked per facility. For now, 
just produce an output table consisting of facility id and slots, sorted by facility id.

    select facid, sum(slots) from cd.bookings
    group by facid
    order by facid

Question
Produce a list of the total number of slots booked per facility in the month of September 2012. 
Produce an output table consisting of facility id and slots, sorted by the number of slots.

    select facid, sum(slots) from cd.bookings
    where starttime >= '2012-09-01' and starttime < '2012-10-01'
    group by facid
    order by sum(slots)